hi I'm guy burger from Palms trading
company here at Albuquerque New Mexico
and this week I'd like to tell you a
little bit about the Pueblo wedding base
the wedding base is a special shape that
is produced in the flood lows for
weddings before the wedding day the
medicine man of the village will blast
the water overnight in a special
container and then pour it into the
wedding base during the ceremony the
groom will drink out of one side of the
vase he'll turn it over to the bride and
she'll drink out of the other side by
drinking this holy blessed water they
spiritually consummate their marriage
wedding vases are produced that many of
the pueblos this happens to be a santa
clara wedding mace which is carved and
polished the Polish laying is done by
applying a wet slip and then using a
smooth River stone back and forth to
give it that special polish this black
one is made by during the firing at a
special time during the fire in a
special temperature sawdust and horse
manure poured over the fire and it sucks
the oxygen out of the fire and turns the
pot black this is a small Zuni wedding
vase this is a raised almost
three-dimensional lizard the lizard is
respected in the public because it can
survive long periods of time without
food or water this happens to be a
commercial slip polished in red and the
final one I have is from Laguna this is
a melon shape Laguna wedding vase with a
very light white slip that this is
polished also all the way down it's very
light very specially made and the shape
is outstanding so there you have three
beautiful wedding bases it's a wonderful
gift for anybody that's getting married
very unusual and you can get it in any
shape any price range hopefully that
helps